h1. jQuery Google Maps Tooltips

jQuery enabled tooltips for Google Maps API V3. 

h2. Usage

h3. HTML

<pre>
  <code>
  <!-- JavaScripts -->
  <script src="/javascripts/jquery.google-maps.tooltip.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
  <script src="/javascripts/jquery-1.3.2.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

  <!-- The map -->
  <div id="map"></div>

  <!-- The tooltip -->
  <div style="display:none; position: absolute;" id="map-tooltip"></div>
  </code>
</pre>

h3. JavaScript

First you'll need to setup your Google map:

<pre>
  <code>
  // Map options
  var latlng = new google.maps.LatLng(60.215084, 24.972961);
  var options = {
    zoom: 11,
    center: latlng,
    mapTypeId: google.maps.MapTypeId.ROADMAP,
    mapTypeControl: false,
    navigationControl: true,
    navigationControlOptions: {style: google.maps.NavigationControlStyle.SMALL} // ZOOM_PAN
  }

  // The Google map
  var map = new google.maps.Map(document.getElementById("map"), options);

  // Invisible code that adds markers
  ...
  </code>
</pre>

With the map setup you're ready to attach the tooltip to the markers and to define callbacks that define what happens when the tooltip is shown:

<pre>
  <code>
  // Called right before tooltip is displayed
  var before_show = function(marker, tooltip) {
      // Set tooltip contents to the marker's title
      tooltip.html(marker.title);

      // NOTE you could also attach JSON objects to a marker and 
      // create more complex tooltips that save the world from evil politicians
      tooltip.children('.thumbnail').attr('src', marker.product.thumbnail_url);

      // NOTE you can also change the marker's icon
      marker.setIcon('/images/hover.png');
  };

  // Called right before tooltip is hidden
  var before_hide = function(marker, tooltip) {
    marker.setIcon('/images/normal.png');
  };

  // Attach tooltip to the DIV element
  var tooltip = new MapTooltip(map, $('#map-tooltip'), before_show, before_hide);

  // Attach tooltip to marker, see http://code.google.com/intl/sv-SE/apis/maps/documentation/v3/reference.html#Marker
  tooltip.addMarker(marker); // markers are usually loaded from a database
  </code>
</pre>

h3. CSS

<pre>
  <code>
  #map-tooltip { width: 200px; height: 100px; color: white; padding: 20px; }
  // Now let's add some CSS3 styles
  // Rounded corners
  #map-tooltip, .button { -moz-border-radius:5px; -webkit-border-radius:5px; }
  // Drop shadow
  #map-tooltip { box-shadow:rgba(0,0,0,0.9) 0 0 10px; -webkit-box-shadow:rgba(0,0,0,0.9) 0 0 10px; -moz-box-shadow:rgba(0,0,0,0.9) 0 0 10px; }
  // Transparent background
  #map-tooltip { background: rgba(10, 10, 10, 0.6); }
  </code>
</pre>

That's all folks.

h2. References

* "Google Maps API V3":http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/v3/
* "Google Maps Marker":http://code.google.com/apis/maps/documentation/v3/reference.html#Marker

h2. Author

"Christian Hellsten":http://christianhellsten.com ("Aktagon Ltd.":http://aktagon.com)

